Similar to the colorize function, we can also
use transformations to move our objects around.
These transformations are a little bit different
to the p5.js transformations. In p5.js we moved
and rotated the whole coordinate system. In this
case we are just transforming individual objects.
And similar to the colorize function, with every
transformation we get a new object as a return,
and can store this in a variable and
then return it for the render function.
Let's start with the translate, to move
objects around. Generate a new variable.
Call it translate object and then use the
translate function. Translate takes also an
array as a first input. And this array has now the
x, y and z coordinates, to move our object around.
Move it on one axis, then provide
let's take our color object.
And push it also into our render array.
Translate object, save it.
And now we have a second cube and the nice
thing is so we used the initial color object
inside the translate, but without
modifying the original color object.
So now we can use the color object over and over
again. So now let's use the rotate function.
And i will just edit this out, so you
can actually see it. And we return it.
The rotate function takes radians, so we
use a little formula, let's say 45 degrees.
And now we see, on the origin we have a rotated
cube and this is similar to the problems in p5.js.
So the rotation works around the center so 0/0/0.
So if you translate something and then rotate it,
it will rotate still around the center point in
the middle. So if you want to rotate something
around itself. First rotate and then translate.
For example if we want to move this cube.
Also let's call it translate rotate
object, use the translate function
and move it in the other direction so
-100 and give it the rotate object. And
then we return the new translated rotated object.
Now we see, we first rotate then we translate
and then we return it. So this can turn
into a lot of writing, if you need to create
all these different variables. These variables
are in the beginning, nice to structure your code
and they are also nice because you can easily
reuse the same objects over and over again.
But if you know that you're going to do this once
and there is no need to create a new variable to
store each individual transformation. You can also
do it like this: instead of a constant you create
a new variable, let's leave it at rotate object
and then for the next transformation you simply
store the new object in the same variable, so
you overwrite the original object. And now you
have the new object inside this variable.
So if we save this, we get the same result.
So if you don't want to create tons of variables.
Simply use the same variable and overwrite it with
each transformation and then push it into
the array to send it back to the renderer.